well we got quite the show for you on
hot line League episode 15 that's right
it's our first-ever riot employee last
week we had our first-ever pro player
now we got our first ever right employee
riot chopper himself who's the head of
na LCS will be on the show so much talk
about we've got na LCS finals staring
down the Barrell right now we've got a
bunch of international events that got
announced all that more starting on
Hotline league in just a second
Hotline league is brought to you by open
by HP once again I nailed the opening
this is it's been two weeks since I've
messed up very excited about it how many
weeks three weeks total yeah this might
be week four I think the first week we
did it the second week we messed up then
the next two we're good
either way that's a good sign for this
show and let's sweep let's face it the
show needs all the help they can get I'm
joined right now by my constant host on
the show Mark Zimmerman how's it going
mark I had a great week Travis that's a
fantastic week LCS was great personal
life was great everything is great
neither I love doing this show with you
I can't wait to do it yeah well guys I
just want to point out we respond to
your feedback we'd be getting a lot of
feedback though the first the first five
myths in the show varkari seemed angry
or sully or you know like he didn't want
to be hired tired now he's here he's
we're we're fixing the show every week
it's getting better and better
yeah yeah your joke last night was so
fucking good which like sitting in the
closet watching iaf I oh yes yes I
laughed so hard at that I made I mean a
lot of people yeah for those for those
that don't know alright last this this
is a constant thing we can just talk
about this a little bit at the start of
the show as marks camera goes out of
focus for some reason so we mark and I
and pretty much everybody else that
works in any sports especially people
that are public-facing get messages all
the time that are like how do I work in
eSports how do I get a job in eSports
it's great to see that kind of passion
what's not so great is people's
inability to just do a Google
it's literally the most common question
that creators get yeah and so you can
just do like if you just search Travis
cafard how to get in these sports you'll
get a mess or you'll get you'll find a
video and I think everybody's written
kind of a blog or a post or some video
somewhere and so mark somebody tweeted
at me and I replied and then Mark kind
of snarkily replied and it's like how
can you get into eSports without doing
any effort or research and I said
convince a team you could be an analyst
that actually just get free housing so
you could sleep in their closet watch
I'm a vice which turned out to be IMDb's
top 100 best videos that's actually the
start of Marc's eSports career that's
how it started yeah if you cut out the
70 hour weeks of work yeah that's
basically it yeah but that was you were
living basically in the was it Kurt it
was curse at the time the curse closet
yeah I was a season four curse house in
Redondo Beach yeah and I just wrote
several years ago mark told me that
basically his life was just being an
analyst edit of the evening he'd go in
the closet and just search up the next
video on IMDB stop what other movies of
all time so he seed all these classics
or whatever if it's life for like a year
I didn't talk to anyone I'd have any
friends in the scene all my other
friends are back on the East Coast I
didn't do anything but watch movies yeah
d-day mean a start ahead of one up team
liquids production studio says that you
only played Dark Souls and then you
complained about the team that's not
quite sure I mean Dark Souls 2 came out
and I complained about Dark Souls 2 yeah
I think I made Josh play Dark Souls 1 ok
yeah the early days of Mark Zimmerman so
you said your personal life and
everything's been great was this week
actually good where was it just another
week for you um it was good in a sense
where I was just like you know what if
I'm not doing anything else like offline
TV's not like a little bit of a hiatus
right now so like and there's like a
couple small things I should have done
but I was like man ok like wanted us to
watch a cut of her podcast thing and I
was just like yeah hold off on that
and relaxing instead nice yeah I saw you
you paused your patreon
yeah well that was more of a result of
like so like I got pretty tired the last
two weeks with just working stuff cuz I
was like finding an editor as well as
like there's the t-pain thing there's a
bunch of stuff and like I just have any
time to work on my personal stuff so I
was like you know what I feel pretty bad
taking money without doing anything you
know I guess I still have enough of what
conscious like I shouldn't do that so I
pause my patreon yeah which is odd
because that's half the people in
eSports they take money without doing
anything so I I was surprised that you
you had that that level of conscious
either way so we've got as I said at the
start of the show we have riot chopper
and all the old people in here dude
there's the Tran Alex Penn yeah
Kelly bank agent yeah he's always washed
up yeah there's just a lot of Derek ice
justice in here yeah I'll talk about
twitch chat by the way this if you guys
start watching the thaad these the
statement doesn't make any sense but we
yeah for those that the reason why
everybody earrings because we've got
riot
chopper who will be joining us in just a
few minutes to talk about all sorts of
stuff he's actually the head of na LCS
so this is going to be an interesting
episode I'm fascinated to see how
callers interact with a live right
employee I'm concerned quite frankly but
we'll see
and and so I asked by the way as we're
starting to get into this and as soon as
we get chopper on mark will start
grabbing questions from the chat and all
that stuff but please be respectful to
our guests you know I think Travis is
building the ultimate stage space ease
pad in the walls making sure everyone's
only got like you know squirt guns out
nothing too crazy I just think you know
if you go out and read it there's
oftentimes a lot of hostility to writers
and I think this show in the past we've
had - on who I guess
- and Zeile are technically our first
write employees I don't know I said
choppers but they feel a little
different right and advised to being in
front of a camera yeah and so I just you
know if you had a bad experience because
of a your favorite team who hasn't been
in the LCS or for years got remake
against them in 2013 I this is probably
not the place to do that but I am
excited to have him on one of the things
I'm going to talk about and actually I'm
gonna rage out about it on the show
right now because actually choppers
ahead of any LCS this isn't an NA LCS
thing but we'll talk about it a little
bit with them so international events
got announced today we now know that MSI
is happening in Berlin and Paris worlds
is happening in Korea with details to
come all-stars of somewhere in North
America and no details yet on that but
and I'm excited about this 2014 worlds
is still my favorite worlds of all time
from from at least a personal
perspective I think there was a lot of
really cool things but I loved Korea
it's gonna be so great to go back it's
been it's been too long quite frankly
and I think you know Paris great city it
is kind of crazy that they're doing
another German France world
international events that world an
international event but excited about it
the only thing I am not happy about is
that the studio matches the studio in
ALCS Berlin will be taking over the
sorry the LCS in Berlin the LCS studio
in Berlin they'll be handling like
everything flub sense ever you want to
take it from the top I'm just I'm just
so mad about it so mad about it no I
mean I've talked about this before this
is a constant battle with me and riot
you know episode 500 of Travis cafard in
and where they decide to hold events
first it was Tallahassee then it was the
NA LCS studio for all-stars now we're
back at now we're back in another LCS
studio for a international event so I'm
kind of bummed about it and I don't know
Marc you should tell me if I'm freaking
out I don't doesn't sound like you're
freaking out I agree that group stage in
the LCS doesn't feel that hype when it's
a venue that you see every week multiple
times yeah I can understand wanting one
of the few international events that we
did a year to be of a little grander
scale
yeah but other than that I'm excited
about it and I think that's cool for
sure and that's that's what I got before
before we get them on do you have
anything else we need to talk about
before we bring him on I've got a
commercial I gotta go to know some
people were mentioning this so I think I
just thought that was funny no I didn't
even see what so I said I was just a
back and forth that then no longer
became a back and forth though okay
well I'll read up on that later yeah
it's not that interesting don't bother
all right uh well without further ado
that logo on the screen in the middle
signals quick little break we're gonna
take before we get chopper on if those
of you that have not watched this show
in the past couple of weeks might not
have noticed this but we actually have a
sponsor on the show mark and I we spend
a lot of time about ten minutes before
the start of the show thinking about how
we're gonna handle it it's a lot of
effort and we now have a sponsor who's
come in and is supporting the show and
that is omen by HP if you haven't been
around or you have been paying attention
the past couple years they've entered
the gaming space again with with omen by
HP is their brand they actually do a
bunch of really cool things in eSports
and that's one of the things that I like
about sort of how they're interacting
with the gaming community is that
because they came in a lot past couple
years they know the eSports is such a
big deal
they know it's a really plays a really
big role yeah mark with this omen
headset on right now I've got something
very close yeah exactly
there's a something he's trying to
listen in because the audio coming from
his monitor there's some sort of weird
buzzing noise he doesn't have a Holman
monitor but I have an omen laptop back
here either way the point is they are
there supporting us on the show they're
supporting eSports they do things like
they sponsor the overwatch league which
I'm sure Lani Cristo and Chad is happy
about they sponsor this show so they've
kind of got you know the big big shows
like hot line League they've got the
grassroots shows like overwatch League
you know it's it's big it just covers
the gambit here and I'm just making a
joke but really appreciate them
they hooked up myself and my editor with
some gear so actually this show is
broadcasting from a Roman computer
haven't had an issue with it at all it's
been great it's been fantastic and
really appreciate their support they're
actually doing a giveaway right now
which I'm gonna grab the link for which
I should have had from before but I've
misplaced it is I accidentally close the
tab
so I'm how you're doing so good yeah
Phil's restarting no they're doing a
giveaway right now sort of based around
another video game that is not League of
Legends but if you guys want to check
that out I'm dropping the link into
twitch chat and you guys can also check
it out on my youtube channel as well if
you want to win some access for a a
different eSports event that exists in
Los Angeles
either way we think a minute so much for
their support
really appreciate owned by HP mark is
Mark is gonna get paid one of these days
because I have I have the ability to pay
him now for it so I just I'm waiting on
his paperwork is it literally on my end
now yes oh that's ready to go my bad I
know another thing you don't have to
handle this week either way thanks so
much Ohman for their support and without
further ado it is now time to bring our
boy Chris hopper chopper onto the show
I'm gonna switch panels really quickly
as we transition to having him on
momentarily adding them in tell me what
I should throw them into yeah you can
drag them into the discord call hello
chopper hello if you can mute your skype
turn your webcam on and on me it on
discord well we'll have everything we
need and on mute on discard okay cool
perfect
all right okay now I just need to I
think you reproach oh the only other
thing you need to do is you turn all
those lights off behind you
get some new Philips lightbulbs real
quick yeah if you could replace all the
office lights in the LCS office with
with colored lightbulbs that would be
great yeah after watching the - episode
where he like clearly tried to upstage
any future riot guests with lights
I knew that my two options were either
to do the LCS studio and just use all of
the LEDs there or just go with the plain
office lights that would have been that
would have been amazing yeah sadly we
couldn't make it happen for tonight but
we'll see if we get some I really like
the idea that it had had we not used
this which is I assume the riot eSports
office behind you I really like the idea
of having you in the LCS Studios if
that's just where you work you know just
like a desk sitting in the middle of the
stage with all the lights on you well
that's actually what they do is they
repurpose the stage so like when the
games aren't going on during the week
employees just work on those yeah okay
there's me a single chair in the middle
of the stage but it's like just a laptop
camera and then all the LEDs gone closed
and then two pairs of sunglasses just
remark by the way somebody just bought
you a subscriptions welcome welcome to
the club here now so you can watch our
tributes mark Avila Kelby emotes LCS
next week when when the analysts desk is
up you can spam yeah I won emote all
right so you're on the show for everyone
who doesn't know who you are what you do
they haven't they've missed out the memo
what would you you want to introduce
yourself and sort of describe your role
and everything
sure so I'm Chris hopper but everyone
knows me as right chopper I've been with
riot for about five and a half years now
joined in the end of 2012 and initially
came on board to kind of help with a lot
of the LCS startup so everything from
the first rule set to the first team
agreements refereeing the first match
kind of helped out with a lot of the NA
LCS and EU LCS formation
over time got to contribute on a whole
bunch of different efforts I was able to
Pio a couple events including the summer
regional final we did at Madison Square
Garden when you say P oh you mean like
you were the head of it correct the
product owner and so kind of bounced
around worked with a bunch of different
teams did a lot of work within league
ops but eventually transitioned to
leading our international team so we had
a team of folks here in the Los Angeles
office who worked with all of our 13
professional leagues across the world
she just kind of helped them you know
learn from mistakes that we've made in
North America and and kind of level up
working with some of their staff teams
did that for about two or three years
and now have transitioned back into
leading and AE sports so I'm not kind of
focused on on one region now yeah very
good and you work all alone in that
office with all those desks fine all
alone I just I periodically go Destin I
answer one email per day oh you're just
there those desks symbolize all the
different roles that you have on the na
LCS and so this is like the marketing
desk this is wearing hats I just
understand a test okay good good that's
like that alright cool so yeah I mean I
it's really good to have you on thank
you so much for doing this hopefully I'm
sure we're all very nervous about what
terrible things could be had you know
people again people bring up some angry
thing why is why is good game University
not in the ALCS has had every caller
they're gonna have to take a personality
test to make sure before we can bring
them on for this I am TJ's only yeah
yeah yeah
Rick and Morty fans only I got to be
this intellectual now so let's talk a
little bit so first off congratulations
on announcing the last time I
interviewed you last time we spoke it
was for the NA LCS finals in Florida
that is now in full swing and I know
we're kind of staring down the barrel of
that there was a bit of a snafu with the
tickets which I know you guys are I
believe still sorting out but I know
that so obviously
is posted a bit of an update on sort of
what went wrong and all that my take is
Ticketmaster sucks and you guys are
forced to use Ticketmaster I'm sure your
take is a little bit more political than
that but I mean how are things
developing since sort of all that stuff
went down and and how much of it can you
talk about you know we don't have a
substantive update yet if we did we
would have put something out to let all
of the fans know but you know we are
continuing to work through understanding
the scope and scale the impact of this
how many people were affected by either
the broken links or kind of too many
codes being issued we're trying to
understand essentially also who those
viewers are so are those people that are
you know local in Miami or the people
that would have had to travel because
you know we we do want to find a way to
kind of make this up to people but
depending on how they were planning on
participating in the event might change
the way that they would want to you know
potentially be made up to and so you
know we're exploring a bunch of
different options and trying to figure
out what we can do but you know probably
more to come either if not by the end of
this week early next year where you guys
kind of taken back by the amount of
attention and the amount of people that
wanted to attend the event or did it
kind of meet expectations after you know
five plus years in these sports I'd
hesitate to say that I'm surprised much
by mine the passion of our fans every
time you start to think that it slowed
down it just feels like it doubles up
again so no I wasn't surprised
necessarily by how many fans wanted to
go I think we were a little conservative
in our venue choice and we talked a
little bit about some of the reasons why
we wanted to do that it allowed us to
kind of explore other markets and you
know the the passion of the fans down
there was a primary reason why we wanted
to go to South Florida and so you know
it was unfortunate that we weren't able
to get tickets to everybody that we
wanted to get them to but I think you
know the the fact that everyone cared so
much is is part of the reason why we
were going down there I think you know
we just next time we know we have an
even greater audience down there than we
might have anticipated
do you I mean do you worry at all about
is it a problem if you guys are having
because again last time we spoke it was
kind of like yeah we're looking at doing
a smaller venue it's a bit of a
different feel that you know for me I am
sure there I'm aware that there are
probably ton of fans that are in that
area of the country and they're probably
worrying like oh when is the next time
let like there's so many different
places for anything else yes to go and
they're worried like is this ever going
to come back to my area or whatever you
know art are you is it an issue if there
are a lot of fans in that area that they
want to go and they can't go or
something like that is this something
you guys will take into consideration as
you kind of go back and forth between
like how big of a venue is too big
versus like what's the right feel versus
all that kind of stuff the the exact art
and science of venue selection is one
that has a lot of fact I think in the
case understanding the passion of the
South Florida crowd is certainly a newer
factor that we would have to address we
didn't necessarily anticipate this much
passion and this much enthusiasm for
fans wanting to attend an event in that
market so I think had we look at future
events you know when we're saying to
evaluate whether it make sense to go
back to South Florida that certainly
will take into account you know I mean
we've when we find great opportunities
and and great venues and great fan bases
we'd love to go back to them you know
that's why we have hit some of the same
venues that we have in the past so you
know as we learn more about this this
audience that we have down in South
Florida I think it's certainly feasible
to say that their passion will color
future events coming back to that area
yeah mark do you have any questions for
chopper I don't want to take up the
whole whole little intro section by
myself no I actually don't have too many
I mean I'm sure at some point he's gonna
have to answer the best of one first
best-of-three thing because I know it
got some tweets about that oh yeah I
mean I also I feel like if I really
wanted to talk to my kid like be like
hey dude I'm on you see I really
yeah you said you said like two desks
over yeah I think I think if I needed to
grab him for a question I could well so
then I'll just ask two more questions
one is all right we're more than halfway
through the spring split we've got like
the franchise teams in you know from
your perspective how's everything going
with the new na LCS if we're gonna call
it that yeah I will personally I've been
incredibly excited by watching the games
week in week out
I think it's been awesome to see some of
the newer orgs like clutch like hundred
phoebs really be able to kind of perform
at the top of the table I think we're
seeing some of the storylines that a lot
of people take for granted kind of being
inverted we're seeing new players on the
scene who are starting to tear it up you
know and I think no one can hate against
a happy Rick Fox at the end of the day
so you know from my perspective the fact
that the games feel so difficult to pick
as evidenced by you know Jeff's narrow
lead or is he mark is he still losing to
the dogs I think he's losing to the dogs
or tied with them and he's beating me
and overall predictions but I have I
have the advantage in what the dogs
predict yeah so the fact that it is so
close and I choked you know I appreciate
the good humor market job like it's the
fact that these games are so close to
the fact that these outcomes are so
uncertain makes it must watch TV and to
me that's that's the core of what I want
to see as a fan I want to go in and be
able to appreciate the match and be able
to you know kind of watch without
knowing what's gonna happen and and
enjoy kind of the thrill of the sport so
watching a league that feels this
dynamic is is exciting for me as a fan
yeah now yet to be known yet if it's
dynamic because all the teams suck or
all the teams are great because I gotta
say what golden Guardians loses to optic
within beats Team Liquid I think the
next day it's it's kind of confusing but
it's the eternal optimism of an na
looked great and so willing to prevent
otherwise exactly exactly that's right
we look how close it is we're also
competitive
we just hop in and talk about for the
twitchchat viewers about how this all
works cuz there's some people who are in
the waiting room already and spamming so
if you guys have not watched this show
before the way this works is there is a
discord that everyone is supposed to
join if they want to get on the show
posting in twitch chat now what you do
is you click that link you then join
both the general Tex channel and one of
the general voice channels and then in
the general Tex channel to write your
take you think s the three is better cuz
this you think best of one is better
because this I'll then pull you into the
waiting room and you'll have to wait
there until we get to you and then I'll
test your mic make sure everything's
good and then we'll bring you on if
you're already in the waiting room stop
typing if you're typing in general but
you're not one of the voice channels
join the voice channel just two little
bits of advice because these things are
currently happening yeah people who are
spamming will get banned from the
discord and sure oh yes I might be yeah
mark oh and then yeah if by the way if
you guys are subs feel free to use the
sub chat mark and I try to check that a
little bit frequently and it gives you a
bit of a higher chance of getting in the
last thing I will say chopper so this is
not your area of expertise so I'm not
gonna grill you endlessly on it but the
I'm excited about Korea worlds is gonna
be sick I think maybe one of the first
times not one of the first times but I
remember way back when there was a day
where I did a Travis talks about how MSI
was in Tallahassee and how I didn't like
that and the next day I was at like the
food truck in front of LCS and you're
like hey by the way Travis I'm the
product owner for MSI this year I saw
your video but you know the continual
Travis complaints about the venue
locations and decisions for some of
these events so but Berlin
is hosting almost all of em si this year
and up until semifinals and finals which
will be in Paris really excited about
the semifinals and finals for sure and
I'm sure grape is gonna be great but why
do did we go with the EU LCS studio for
the groups and also can you clarify a
little bit because it says like the
newly renovated studios some people I
think think that's the current studio or
it's gonna look differently maybe you
can add some explanation for that too
sure so I will caveat this upfront as
you did by saying I don't work on the
events team anymore so I don't
necessarily have the best answer so I'll
kind of give you my understanding of the
situation basically when we look at
events especially international events
that are going to be multistage we're
trying to tell a story as the event
continues and that story for us needs to
culminate in kind of a spectacle and in
order for it to feel like there is that
build-up to a spectacle it needs to kind
of start at a smaller stage and so when
we were looking at some of the smaller
stages that might be appropriate it
became pretty quickly apparent to us
that all of the capabilities that a lot
of these smaller venues could have we're
pretty similar to the capabilities that
we had in our EU in our EU studio and so
while we are admittedly trading off not
being in a different city and not being
able to expose you know a couple hundred
or a couple thousand people to to that
level of the event by being in the EU
studio kind of being on our own home
turf we it does allow us to kind of take
a lot more liberties with the broadcast
we're able to be much sharper with the
show it's it's a space that we know much
better and you know I won't speak for
the team I don't know what surprises
they might have in store for it I would
anticipate that it will not look exactly
like the kind of standard you I'll see a
studio and I would imagine that they've
got some tricks up their sleeve but you
know this was a decision that was made
in order to allow us to take advantage
of the EU LCS to do which we did a
significant renovation on in the
offseason to build out you know a master
control suite there and a lot of the
broadcast capabilities that the ELC is a
choice and it would still allow us to
then build to that same spectacle
that we want for the the Paris under the
show so you know I think we we are
excited about the opportunities to kind
of work in those studios and understand
that it does come at a trade-off but you
know for this event and what we are kind
of looking at through the course of it
felt like the the right steps to take
gotcha
okay all right well maybe maybe well I'm
excited to see what the International
events team is up to and and hopefully
it kind of kind of surpasses my
expectations so I remember I just
remember that what the studio looked
like for I think it was 2015 all-star
what was the first all-star that was at
the NA LCS studio was a 2015 or 2016
I think it's 2015 his Barcelona was
twice okay yeah I remember that looked
very different it was kind of cool so I
think you know there's there's
definitely a precedent for doing
something cool I'll see what if you look
at some of the especially some that were
in the non your cutting is now chopper a
little bit I'm not sure what must be
that that quality riot studio broadcast
yeah go ahead
well you were saying if you look at if
you look at some of the things that
especially some smaller regions did
during rift rivals to really kind of
spice up their venues you know they
weren't making multi-million dollar
changes to their studio but they were
able to get a really different look and
feel that kind of felt more in line with
the story there so I think between the
capabilities in that studio and some of
the lessons that we've learned over the
last year or two whether it be from
all-star whether it be from revivals I'm
very excited to see what that team can
produce cool I can give a bit of advice
you should get all the lights that are
used for like analysts desk and casters
and stuff and replace them with hugh
phillips lights yeah i wit this show
should be sponsored by and you can just
copy this look and feel we don't it's
okay probably look Miami's gonna look
like they're they just took the hot line
League aesthetic and then they're just
like that's just that's the whole notion
this show started before that was
announced Travis maybe we did in Toulon
that's I mean what do you mean maybe no
it's tough if you never asked the
question in the first interview
Travis was this just a blatant rip
hotline League yeah you know put to the
test I'm not sure about how I could
answer that yeah so this is the fun
thing I don't think we'll be able to fix
it but your your microphone cuts out
once every other sentence for like one
word and so it just sounds like you're
cussing the entire show and we're just
taking it so I want I really we're
really excited for the new events that
happened I know it's gonna be good
either way
yeah ready for the callers as Mike goes
off to fish his first caller out of that
rule say the first caller even though
we've kind of talked about I feel like I
need to give the floor to people who
didn't get tickets like some
representative to voice their opinion so
I grabbed one guy who I think that's is
we're starting off with the not get the
ticket guy throwing I mean I just just
so like the people in chat who are like
so I did get a tick like there's I don't
know how many other I've seen a couple
people posting so we can just get this
guy out of the way okay cuz if the way
you say that is so like it's like let's
just say this person will represent all
of them okay you are therefore dressing
them alright alright here we go yeah
mark as as chopper takes a swig of what
we can only assume is alcohol okay
really quickly the the people who
stopped I'm gonna give quick shoutouts
really quickly Jordan event Nexus Rico
suave is six 193 Dorking Wrath of Khan
an emo he'll specific star squeak the
weak Rhino rhino 1992 the 8-bit creeper
Alex tequila 23 H Rio has recept Rio
procs opt SM fan was the person who
gifted the sub 2 right chopper so thank
you very much I'm sure choppers this is
the best gift he's ever gotten yeah
dings oh wait what is ready mark no well
true it's a typical hotline League
fashion the one guy I pulled for this
question is not answering anymore so
we're pivoting to somebody else okay and
in the meantime I will find someone who
did not get a ticket in his mad yeah
good good I look forward to it yeah
alright here's the actual okay we got
your dick on the show dick where you
calling from Travis I gotta correct you
this time it's just genic I don't know
where you get the duck
well they're not like two DS so I
appreciate appreciate the enunciation
but listen Jamaican special are Molly
what everyone were you calling from
Arkansas from Arkansas
alright and what do you want to talk
about I just kind of wanted to ask
chopper about some general ideas into
role building in policy setting and then
incorporating new software and
technology into kind of the rule set and
competitive sounds really basic okay so
yeah I mean what whatever what do you
practically want to want to ask or tell
I paid to put specifics on that sure the
things I was thinking about was like the
chrono brake like kind of talking about
you know I would imagine some of that
was brought into the scene through
wanting to attract players and how they
were interacting on the game did that
just come from you know logging that all
out and then rewinding that or was that
something that you guys like originally
thought that was actually built out of
wanting to fix the exact situation that
it was built because we had watched
enough Eastport pauses that felt
salvageable but because we didn't have
the tech to avoid the single death that
we felt otherwise complicated the game
and you know there was a credit all
credit goes to a team of really talented
between the eSports team and the the
guys on the whole product they would
have build out that technology for us so
that one assembly was actually built for
the eSports reason and so kind of just
to follow up on that a little bit as
well like how did you go about setting
up the rule set for that allowing the
players decide if they want take that or
not and also that leading into remake
yeah you know any time we're introducing
a large shift in sort of how matches can
play out especially it sort of a
deterministic points like that we want
to make sure that we're taking the time
to not only make these policy changes in
a very calculated fashion but we want to
make sure that they're ones
we're consulting all parties to kind of
understand the implications on those
decisions so you know we had various
versions of this technology working in
various states and we're able to show it
to teams and show it to coaches and show
it to players and almost universally
they all wanted this technology because
they want to be able to play out the
games and so they don't want these games
to have to go back and be remade and do
you do the same expands to do different
ones so you know because everyone was so
in alignment around building the
technology into the game and being able
to kind of use it as as quickly and
efficiently as possible
then it just became the question of okay
what's the right way to integrate this
so that such that it can be fair to all
parties you know there's a lot of sort
of wargaming and contingency planning so
what happens if it happens to a team
that's behind what happens if it happens
to a team that's ahead we trying to play
out a lot of those scenarios and make
sure that the end of the day all of the
outcomes felt fair and once we kind of
had a relatively strong policy we were
able to kind of turn it over to put into
the league and from there to then go go
ahead I like that a lot
I came from the Starcraft 2 world or
programming and all that and that was
something that I was you drove me insane
watching those remakes happen because of
something you know crazy happening in
the game or just connects and all that
kind of stuff to kind of continue on
that process towards a policy set what
caused the change on changing the rule
for import players of then making them
residents to make that longer and then
creating that cutoff point and all that
yeah so you talking about the change
while not the initial implementation but
when we ended it out and then eventually
kind of removed residency except for the
grandfathered players correct so the
decision at that point so to kind of
understand the context of that you have
to understand the cut can you hear me
yeah I'm thinking I think I have a
solution which is you unmute yourself on
skype
and then I will meet you on discord and
then I think cuz I think it's discord
that's cutting out okay I'm on skype
okay perfect all right I think we are
gonna solve it so go ahead and keep
answering I hear you guys on both oh
yeah you'll have to figure that out mark
I believe in you and Marcus Marcus
server mute me on discard well but then
the caller can't hear you
so mark sing Oh mark just privately mute
chopper on discord and we'll be good the
caller will just hear him cut out a
little bit but I think we'll be fine
yeah okay I got you
can I still hear the caller yes okay
so wouldn't we were talking now evil
nasty echo no I don't hear it I think
I'm okay I'll mute myself Oh Travis
tried to be clever and he just ruined
the show my god I just muted myself on
discord yeah but now the colors now the
color can't hear you hey okay it's fine
it's fine
I think we're good so what do you want
me muted on if I can hear myself echoing
all right we'll go back to well go back
to dorable go back to normal
[Music]
you had some friends oh well have like
she made this set up for you yeah if
only if only there was a way to make
this work
Skype Travis I'm sick of hearing - you
all right are we all good yes all right
sorry for that caller so basically when
we're talking about the inter-regional
movement policy and the initial kind of
thoughts behind it what we were looking
to do was establish a means by which
players from other regions could go to a
different region cement themselves there
you know become established players and
kind of pursue free market and
eventually kind of integrate themselves
that could mean that player base into
that league and become a part of that I
think the great example of that is
Pearson you know he came over to North
he integrated himself in the fan base
and I think now if you ask most people
he'll be viewed as a man a player and so
that was kind of the original idea the
problem was what we saw after
implementation was that there were teams
that were sort of just looking to
isolate elements of the the team such
that they were kind of able to just
focus on playing and not really the
integration element and so when we
looked at it we were seeing a bunch of
players who were all spending the
required time in the other region and
then they were immediately kind of going
back to their home region or you know
they weren't trying to learn the
language or interact with the fans and
so at the end of the day we were just
concerned that this was going to just
essentially time delay a you know an
unreached and so you know that's why we
kind of pushed out the the timing
because we want to make sure that if
there was a player who's gonna be able
to naturalize or you know gain
citizenship or become a permanent
resident the league its demonstrative of
a greater intent to really join that
community and join that culture and that
to us felt like it preserved the
integrity of the league and the ability
to kind of build out teams were still
aspirational role models for the local
fan bases but it also allowed teams to
pursue the kind of talent that they
wanted to globally and allowed players
globally to pursue jobs in any market so
you know it was it was certainly an
update on the policy because we
certainly kind of correctly hypothesized
the impact they would have on the heirs
but we feel pretty good about where we
got to as them hey thank you so much to
dick for calling in yeah thanks have a
good one guys Thanks all right so the
next the next as we live troubleshoot
this if you can change your your voice
sensitivity and discord I put a message
into the skype chat all right we're
grabbing the next caller and while you
get the next caller and chopper
continues to experiment with his
settings we're gonna have I want to say
thank you to jeddak by the way who was
just on the show but also subbed trick
7:59 rima 39 frost slasher bagpipes
0-6 for Kiwi mullet boy and then obi-wan
Kenobi so far has gifted us up to risen
Lazarus Steve from Team Liquid so
literally paying Steve from Team Liquid
was very funny and Kelby so things are
going well and hippy Steve has resumed
is this any better Travis that is so
much better I think here's the Florida
guy okay the Florida guy is here Rodman
Rahman 101 represent all of Florida who
couldn't get tickets and wanted to go to
this event so you are you have been
unduly elected to represent your
community well I don't think I'm the
best person to represent that community
since I do have tickets oh okay well
Robin 101 where you call I assume you're
calling from Florida yeah I'm about 45
minutes northwest of the venue okay here
in Pembroke Pines also we just got paid
by Steve as he donated ten thousand bits
to the show so thank you thank you Steve
for paying us alright so Rodman you're
on the show to tell chopper how much you
had no issues with the ticket system ID
you're super happy or yes that's
definitely my tape it was it was
difficult to say the least
to get tickets I luckily I was ready
half an hour before I did my homework
I had the Ticketmaster link open because
I was able to find it through
Ticketmaster
but the link that I received in a text
message didn't work until what 20
minutes after it opened and when I was
able to buy tickets maybe five or ten
minutes after eleven o'clock or at ten
o'clock whenever it opened I'd say at
least thirty percent of the seats were
gone I was able to score reasonable
seats but I mean like I told everyone
that I was friends with I wanted to be
able to you know really sit as close as
I could you know feel there there's
their spit on my face as they were
yelling out as they were yelling out
stuff and I mean I was a little
disappointed I'm lucky that I got the
tickets I'm disappointed at how it all
went down I understand it's not riots
fault
but I want to hear
you know what what you guys are kind of
thinking of doing and I mean I know that
it's targeted towards a Florida audience
specifically in Miami audience but
seeing all these issues and I doubt that
many Miamians got tickets I don't think
that the event quite be the same without
you know the presence of that Miami soul
really Rodman 101 is there if chopper
gets a player to spit on you will that
will that solve the issue for you yes
yeah just anyone right now just chopper
for future events will there ever be a
splash zone
we're like Gallagher Gallagher asked
where they have to wear like the
Poncho's sign a release beforehand yeah
hopefully not you know to your points
like I completely sympathize with the
the pain that you felt as you went
through that process as I kind of talked
about in the article that we put up late
last week there were a variety of
elements of this that you know broke at
various points the links that you
mentioned were kind of a big deal even
and even the fact that they were
resolved within 30 minutes was still to
us you know an unacceptable situation so
right you know we are taking the steps
as we kind of outlined to sort of
revisit the kind of steps that we put in
place as we work with different ticket
vendors for a future event looking to
kind of be more assertive I would say
throughout the process and kind of
challenge a lot of their existing
procedural norms just to make sure that
our fans have the greatest experience
you know when it comes down to it we're
never going to be able to -
unfortunately please everyone that wants
a great ticket to an event you know we
are lucky to have incredibly passionate
fans like you and it is it is an
unfortunate reality of the business that
we're in that we can't do live events
all the time and give everybody first
row seats because you know I've seen the
passion of fans at those events and
totally agree with you that you know it
is it is something's really magical so
you know I unfortunately don't
a better answer then we will absolutely
learn from this I can promise you that
this is painting all of our staff and we
are trying to find ways to make it up to
the those who are affected and you know
I'm glad that you got tickets to the
event I'm excited to kind of see that
you really enjoy the show and you know
we will continue to learn and improve
from this okay all right
and kind of going back to the other
point that I made how are you guys
trying to kind of bring in this this
whole Miami feel because I was I was
saying I think from what I've seen
online a lot of Miamians weren't able to
secure tickets so how do how do you kind
of you know bring in that feel of the
people in this area without them
actually being there a lot of them
really quickly before chopper answer is
that I would I would just caution you in
seeing like I'm sure there are some
people from Miami that haven't gotten
tickets of course yeah in my experience
like you'll you'll see there I bet you
there will be a lot of people from Miami
at the salient and that that would be my
thing even if there are some that didn't
get tickets and it sucks like that is
that's my personal take on it but the
problems the problems through the
ticketing process weren't more or less
heavily affecting you know viewers from
Miami so I think to the degree that we
typically see very strong hometown
audiences come out it's I would assume
that you know the kind of those same
metrics would apply for the Miami show
and so I would assume that you know a
large chunk of the crowd we're gonna end
up having will be Miami fans or fans
from the region like yourself who are
able to work through the process and and
secured tickets there so you know I
think between the fact that AI actually
have pretty good faith that we'll have a
good showing from the crowd there and
then also I have a lot of faith in our
broadcast team to kind of capture
elements of the look and feel of the
region what you think about sort of the
whether it be the bumper shot so we use
for our features or some teaser material
or some of the longer format we're able
to shoot down there as well as the
content that I'm sure all the teams will
to put out down there I think there will
be a pretty strong element of look and
feel of Miami I mean that's part of the
reason we wanted to go down there was to
tap into that culture so someone was
posting in chat and just so I don't have
redundant callers I'll just read this
guy thing out loud and maybe you can
what's this way chirp knocks na wks
knocks he was saying I'm from Florida
but I didn't get a ticket why should I
bother driving down for a sold-out show
for something I not gonna be able to
attend if there is there a festival plan
I know spring doesn't warrant anything
comparable the world's it there's so
much support around that event is there
anything playing this far out from the
event that we're catering to a crowd
that like doesn't get tickets so I guess
he's asking like viewing parties or
anything like that yeah so that's that's
part of what we're looking to understand
as part of kind of the effort to resolve
this ticketing element is what options
there are to work with you know either
pre-existing or support other potential
viewing parties in the area I think you
know we did kind of underestimate the
magnitude and the passion of the crowd
that wanted to do or see something in
the area so I can't necessarily commit
to anything right now but again I'd say
stay tuned in to the lolly sports
twitter you know by probably late late
this week early next week I think we'll
be able to have some more conclusive
answers on what we can do to supplement
those who wanted to see the show and and
kind of try and make up for the poor
experience they had here yeah I heard a
rumor that there was this show like a
community show that is trying to host
something out there for the finals
it's called hotline leave mark mark has
heard this rumor
mark has not been in the production
meetings that I've been in where we're
starting to realize just how many
thousands of dollars it costs to get a
venue and anything like that it might be
a groundswell of support from the local
community who would just love to have a
lot so far so for content I mean I mean
Steve just paid a percent of the show
yeah so far so far mark has on the show
a couple of weeks ago but like we should
do a live hotline link in Miami then now
that I've spent several weeks
talking to a couple different companies
and honestly I felt a bit as much and
had Luke who is one of a producer some
Yahoo do better research and find out
like that this is gonna be over ten
grand probably make happen now mark is
saying that he's hearing it's gonna
happen so still working on that but yes
hopefully Rodman you can come and ask a
question or say something on the show
live if we ever get a chance to do it in
my yeah you'll be in the front row we'll
save a spot I promise you right now if
you can make it on the show you can you
could hit up my my mess you can DM me on
discord or something if we actually do
the show in there's an audience will
give you the splash zone seat in the in
the front row thanks so much for calling
in thank you very much for the
opportunity guys yeah thanks all right
cool so we now we're we've got the
tickets out of the way that's a whole
Miami portion of the show yeah so we're
grabbing more people right now we got
let's see Oh beep own kenobi this was
fifteen hundred bits thank you and Abbas
Eno has subbed as well let's get our
next day yeah this is going to be a
change of pace okay life Admiral is on
the show where you calling from my
federal come from the Middle East
oh boy okay well yeah welcome to the
show it's always nice to have colors
from all over the world what do you want
one actually all right so I think it's
about time that we talk about the
elephant in the talks about well TSM is
going to pick it up and everything but
it's time to shine a light on CLG and
the fact that it seems that they have
the single worst coaching staff in the
league they it does not appear like that
they understand matter now yeah I get it
every single person on CLG right now has
been to Worlds ran over the world's food
in two different leagues darshan honey
and exhale together on
LG and bio frost on TSM but the fact is
one smithy wantin once a from some this
team does not understand macro they're
doing things like trading to to mid lane
towers for an ocean drag things like
that so I think this really comes down
to the coaching staff because it's copy
after week after week after week where
they're making mistakes and nobody seems
to be picking up on oh hey this is a
mistake now I want to sit across last
week but I kind of fell asleep before I
started so give me your your opinion but
I think I think this coaching staff is
it needs a turnover personally liquid by
though as you're saying this liquid
Steve and chat Cecile Jie has one of the
best coaches in the league so already
got even either is playing the long game
we're here where he's like trying to
keep CLG with a shitty coach or he
actually disagrees with you I don't know
so this is less of a chopper question
more of a mark question because I
wouldn't expect the head of na LCS to
discuss if he thinks that the coaching
staff for CLG he's a fan he says six to
be fired here's the thing that I just
want to say before I've been a fan of
CLG like long time we're talking 2012
back when GG was it's GG and Lincoln and
Chow stored on the team like we're
talking a long time so I've seen a lot
of different iterations of CLG so this
one this version does not seem well
coached me I so I'll I'll actually jump
in since you make fun of me for not not
know my analytical shit Travis well I
just don't expect very hands
I mean look like I've seen I've seen six
around for years now it I think there's
something to be said for a guy that has
coached one of the only three franchises
that has never lifted a championship
banner and na and like this is a team
that's been competitive over the course
of years and you know at various times
has had more success than last success
and the gun fair struggling patch right
now but like that literally could turn
around
Pachi point for like you don't know
whether or not those guys are gonna kind
of turn around for the second half of
this season or maybe even what we've
seen these guys able to kind of go back
and forth and and channel that magic and
make great runs like they did at MSG so
you know I personally think it's it's
tough to kind of hit that hard on six I
mean I'm sure there's elements of his
coaching that mark could probably
diagnose more accurately than I could
but like I think judging a guy by six
weeks when he's been successful for the
course of four years is is a little
preemptive mark yeah I mean that's
exactly kind of point I would make just
like yes I agree there's been some
things I don't like one of the things
that we hear a lot about from is like
the drafts are particularly weird and
for someone who's usually known for
drafting it's like oh man this really
sucks to see maybe he's lost his touch
but like the team's also not playing
well and it's one of those things where
like you have a draft that has a couple
wind conditions and if you don't play to
them it looks like a bad draft so a good
example this would have been like the
kamil a really installed game we're like
we're used to seeing who he shit on kids
with a really in soul the joke is like
every time he picks it oh man it's the
really in soul like you know the one so
every couple months you leave it up and
get shit on to remind yourself that who
he's with it except that didn't happen
this time and they over focused toppling
and all that stuff happens so it looked
like oh what a shit draft because they
got out scaled so I think it's a bit of
a chicken in the trigger of the egg
where it's like the team kind of sucks
is did dicks lose his touch probably not
and maybe he has but I would give him
more than one or I guess at this point
two-thirds of a bad split before you're
calling for his head I think that's fair
I just I just it it speaks volumes about
how tanked won Smith went and then after
after milk even went worse so I think I
think those players actually had much
more a much bigger emphasis on the team
the team did then six did cuz six seems
to be the only constant so that's my
that's
but I have no problem sitting and
watching just frustrating yeah I mean I
can feel that but like you know like
chopper said they've hoisted a banner
they were fourth last but they changed
out two players and suddenly they're
ninth
like probably has to do with some of
those other changes that happened yeah
hey thanks so much life have enough for
calling in and thank you for calling I'm
sure it's pretty late or pretty early
there so I appreciate you know seven
yeah well thank you so much for for
being up at this time for us thanks
alright moving on to our next caller by
the way got poro on mars how so it's a
great name really appreciate and public
Cola with the resub thank you got
another caller on in just a second are
you usually at the office this late
chopper it depends I try to get home
before someone gotta get on to feed for
some reason sorry can you say that again
I said I usually try to get home a
little bit to make sure that someone's
on line to lose LP to those other kids
and silver they get home from school you
get home from work exactly
yeah very good okay Excel a 1 a 2 SS
were you called oh I'm calling from San
Jose California
alright cool and what do you want to
talk about I was curious as to why
choppers that NBA teams took such
interest into the LCS I mean even before
franchising he had what was 76ers and
all the lucky birds are still there with
flight West but it seems like the NBA
physically has taken a real interest in
legal legends in the LCS overall some
kinda have my thoughts when I'm curious
on my chopper tickets I think it's a
combination of a couple reasons one I
think when
when you think about pro sports they
think about people watching their sports
on TV and when they're trying to
understand what younger demographics are
doing they increasingly are concerned
about people who are leaving TV behind
and watching things online and so then
when they say well what are they
watching online a lot of people say well
they're watching twitch and they're
watching eSports and when you look at
League and you look at some of the other
sports but but Lee and particular I
think League is probably the easiest
part to understand in its relation to
basketball
I think it's a five-on-five game some of
the positions and the differences
they're kind of analogous to the five
positions that you see on a basketball
team and also the NBA typically has a
younger demographic than you know
baseball or hockey so they're a little
bit closer to the same fans who are
watching our league as you know are
potentially watching theirs so I think
there was kind of a natural demographic
overlap and I think once you know teams
like like the Sixers but also
individuals like Rick Fox started
getting involved I think that kind of
threw up a bit of a an interest bell
among the other owners more so than it
did in other sports what might not have
necessarily made as large of a ripple
but you know I mean Rick has been a
fantastic evangelist of League of
Legends sports for a couple years now
and that's a guy that knows every owner
in the league and so I think you know
he's been able to be a really great
advocate and then the other thing is we
actually do events we have done several
events in NBA venues and so one of the
first ways that Madison Square Garden
company kind of was introduced to
eSports was when we--when did an event
there and they kind of looked around and
said this crowd is amazing this is a
great event
you know how can we get more involved
here and you're a year and a half later
you know obviously investing in CLG so I
think between the the overlap that we
naturally have with the demographic I
think the awareness caused by a couple
key sort of celebrity influencers and
then finally the venues that we used
whether it be MSG or the Staples Center
we kind of look at a lot of the NBA
venues as potential options and so all
of those I think just naturally led to a
greater um
out of awareness for the NBA owners and
thus interest yeah right I mean we had
this the same thing like with my same
thoughts
so other thing I was thinking was that
it was like focus on the players when
you look at the NBA players in the ALCS
players the one thing that they have
huge in common is that they both use
social media a lot a lot of interaction
happens not only between fans and
players but also between player and
player
yeah like seeing players go back and
forth and then seeing players kind of go
back and forth I mean when you look at
the offseason like recently a Cleveland
Cavaliers made a whole bunch of trades
right before the all-star break
a lot of those things those the news is
coming from sports writers putting it on
Twitter and then when you look at it
I'll see us all season you know you most
notably doublelift he's the first place
he went she wasn't ready it wasn't how
ESPN it was like Twitter like well I
guess I'm no longer on TS anymore so
like yeah I agree nakhon seems like
there's so many similarities there and
that was kind of my reasoning for them
an NBA taking interest that and the age
gap like you said like the age he said
was really there's a lot of money in
women and Millennials and both NBA and
LCS have that yeah yeah very good thank
you so much Excel thank you yeah
appreciate I'm moving on we are just
past the hour mark you're with right
chopper for those tuning in riot
chopper Chris hopper here on the show is
the head of the NA LCS just talking
about all things LCS on the show
exciting to have long as he's clearing
out oh there is some movement behind him
in the office I don't know yeah the
cleaning service serve security guards
they always walk the floor it's not a
zombie I assume you guys will give me a
heads-up after this yeah maybe maybe
that's good television I think if you
know your standards are yeah invite the
guest on watch him get eaten yeah
exactly I mean just
where you calling from I'm calling from
Koreatown Los Koreatown Los Angeles here
right here did you have Windows last
time that you went to Korean barbecue uh
sorry you caught between barbecue yeah
career over Q uh well my family's Korean
so we don't necessarily just have to go
out you kinda see that
oh okay do you not go to do you ever go
to quarters
oh well that's like the most common one
but no usually some other ones that are
around okay that's like the boring
people one well either hey what do you
want - what do you want to talk about I
want to talk about well obviously it's
pretty big topic about best the ones you
know na LCS and my feelings on them
especially on someone who watches better
theories also in lck right now and kind
of what I get from it so basically we
change from best priests the best ones
and na LCS EU LCS you know this meant
for viewers who were able to watch all
the games and for analysts who want to
be able to watch all the news views get
something out of them but I feel we're
more than halfway in through spring
split and I feel that the best one form
that as a fan who watches almost every
game and na LCS who's very avid who's
very like dedicated to watching one
competitive LCS I feel like best the
ones just doesn't give me that same
feeling Vista three has and it's kind of
it is me a lack of satisfaction when
teams do one and one team do its
compared to what I get when I watch
bestest reason lck I kind of be
different in the data that you can get
from the teams that play there you know
it's it's hard to argue the benefits
that you're attributing to the
best-of-three and and honestly this is
this is kind of a 51 for topic I mean
there's gonna be people who feel
best-of-three was the right format there
were some very vocal voices around going
to best-of-three in this office that led
to that decision a couple years ago
there's gonna be people who prefer best
of one for the different
kind of the kind of freedom and show
pacing and kind of the intrigue of
feeling like the underdog has a greater
chance and they're kind of they
appreciate that out into the storyline
so I can't say that any of the things
that you feel about that are wrong and
and at times but I think got a lot of
the people on this broadcast team have
felt the same thing that's why we love
extending playoffs into best of fives
and seeing how those longer series play
out I think when he came down to it we
felt that there was some of that let the
best team win get the most satisfaction
from ensuring that the best team is
winning throughout the playoffs and when
we looked at the regular season behavior
you know it did make best-of-three
ambassador he did make watching the
league harder it was more content it was
a longer block to sit down if you want
to watch to see whether or not you
notice em could be TL or vice versa you
know it was a much greater commitment to
be able to kind of see that through and
from the behavior that we could see from
the fans you know that difficulty that
we imposed on watching the league cost
us in in you know a lot of the fan kind
of behavior and fan viewership so you
know we at the end of the day we want to
make a product that is easily consumable
and enjoyable for for our players and
for our fans and so at the end of the
day you know we decided that reverting
to a single game format was the right
decision for the league now that's not
to say that it's the same thing for
Korea there's plenty of people who enjoy
watching the matches play out in the
Korean format and you know the things
that they're going to that league for
might be different than the needs that
they've fulfilled
via the end Maori you LCS and so you
know it's not to say that one format is
right and the other is wrong and that's
why we don't impose a global format we
allow different regions to have their
own kind of decision-making authority
around bo3 or bo1 but we you know we in
North America at least believe that
reverting to be a one made the easier to
watch and that seemed to be a driving
factor with the majority of our fan base
so you know I I can totally sympathize
with you enjoying watching the Bo 3s in
Korea and and wishing that we still had
that in North America but you know
we we kind of looked at the fanbase and
we're trying to be sympathetic to some
of the the needs that were demonstrated
there so based on what you said right
now I could kind of just glean from what
you said is that there has already been
some improvement in fan interactions
based on changing the format back to
best of one and you put you said
throughout is like emphasis on making it
so that the viewers have an easier time
watching League of Legends in general
right so another question I have is then
regardless of what pro se and their
input would you always lean towards
making decision that's always for the
major public or like the bigger group
compared to like what double have says
about series or what pobelter says or
what this process I think it depends on
what you mean by the lean I think if you
ask is my default position always going
to be that which seems to drive the most
value for the fans then I can pretty
confidently say yes to that I mean
that's part of Riot culture and we
aspire to be the most player focused
game company in the world and on the
eSports side we echo that sentiment now
what I don't want to say there is that
were immediately going to dismiss the
input of our pros and of our coaches and
of our team owners you know especially
in a partner Li where we're trying to
build for the long term you know there
are degrees to which I think they feel
more strongly about certain issues than
I think this was one where pros before
we made the change we're very vocally in
support of it I think once we kind of
existed in that world and they saw sort
that some of the assumed advantages
didn't necessarily translate as expected
I think it became a less vocal priority
for you know kind of the majority of the
players that said they're still gonna be
players who love bo3 and they're still
gonna be players who say at the end of
the day you know the only thing I care
about is that the best team wins and
that happens more often their bo3
that'll be a one and you know they're
probably right but we want to make sure
that we're balancing for the needs of
the pros the needs of the team and the
needs of our fan base and so we need to
kind of balance across all of those and
that that led us to the decision that it
did mmm something I would think he's
very hard to do
it is it is very hard to do because you
know we we have a look it's hard to not
it's hard to not peek with very serious
wait the words of guys like double lift
or team owners like Reggie and when they
you know when they have strong feelings
about how this league did you listen and
we do take that into account but you
know at the end of the day we that's why
we take a lot of care to survey our
audience and make sure that we kind of
understand what they're looking for and
and hopefully we can kind of translate
that into the best league for our fans
hmm thank you yeah no problem man just
good question yeah and this is a follow
up to that I would ask chopper to you
now okay you switch back to best of one
and if this was sort of born out of the
decision to like really to try to look
for engagement like are you guys
actively monitoring sort of how the
viewership is trending and how engaged
the fans are and all that stuff and sort
of comparing contrasting first before
like how ongoing is sort of the study of
the shift between best of three and best
of one I would say that we are
constantly looking at the there's
because of I think that's part of just
natural human curiosity I'm just I mean
I wouldn't necessarily that I wouldn't
necessarily say that we're doing so with
the intent of taking action on a
week-by-week basis I do think that
looking at the at the numbers and
understanding fan sentiment was what led
us to move Sunday's back from 2 o'clock
to noon and we were able to make that on
a fairly quick change based on some very
clear evidence from our fans that that's
what the right move was for especially
our East Coast and our European viewers
of the na LCS but in terms of a more
significant shift like the bo3 Bo 1 or
other kind of decisions of that
magnitude that's largely something where
we need a greater body of evidence and
when you look at the number of changes
that were made coming into this bracelet
whether that be the new franchise teams
the different channels the different
time that we're on going from bo3 back
to be a 1 there were so many things that
change that we wanted to make sure that
we hung on to the that we had and now we
can really start to take a look at ok
what can we do to refine
the experience for that button ensure
that a the decisions that we made appear
to have been correct which I'd say so
far they have and then further work to
kind of bring back some of the audience
that we might have lost along for what
so I think at this point we feel fairly
confident that the decisions that we
made were right and so now we're focused
on continuing to grow and kind of
restore some of the viewers that we
might have lost theirs yeah cool who
wants to follow up on this conversation
in an arrow okay cool I'm gonna go make
sure it's good yeah
thank you very much Justin thank you so
much it's great question all right so
we've got the Equifax coach coming on to
follow up on this I don't know if we're
about to see a showdown between echo
Fox's coach who obviously will probably
be hoping for best of threes and chopper
but I I'm excited to see how this goes
you know taking a look really quickly at
the subscribers we've got lol Mahad
Melvin f21 and I am hip Bob who have all
subbed and it looks like we got an arrow
in the call right now an arrow deepest
coach voice in the LCS where you calling
from an arrow Beverly Hills again what
do you what do you so this sounds like
you you want to follow up on the last
caller discussion on best of ones best
of threes yeah so I know a lot of people
make comments that like best of one and
best of three like best of three is
better for a competitive sake and like
helping in a like do better
internationally and I think that
arguments kind of I'm misunderstanding I
think like best of one best of three
doesn't change how any of the teams
practice like everybody still goes into
practice and does the best of three they
take a break and they do a best of three
again right and then it's just on the
weekend we play like two less games
maybe like out we're straight and that
doesn't really impact anything
internationally like the only time I
really cared between best of three and
best of one was like when I lost the
best of one like I feel like people
they care about it when they're the team
losing the best of ones because everyone
wants to be higher in regular season
like I think it's great in lck because
of the way they do playoffs is like a
gauntlet run right so if you finish at
the top of best of three you basically
are already second place like teams have
to play up to face you in the finals
rate and na LCS like we get a bye to a
fourth place if you're top 2 so it
doesn't actually change how our playoff
system goes and it doesn't change our
practice so why does best of three best
of one really change anything for how we
compete internationally at all I think
it's just kind of a misconception by
fans to be honest yeah I mean I I think
one thing that we noticed in the new
Traverse you know be a12 bo3 was we were
actually surprised by how little it
changed the product of schedule of teams
and so it wasn't like buy wine to get
ready for bo threes they shifted wo5
scrams you know they just sort of a lot
of the practice schedules stay the same
thing so I think that was a little bit
reassuring to us when we knew that we
were going back was it it wouldn't have
a huge impact on the practice schedule
because we definitely don't want to
disrupt how pros prepare but yeah I
raised its like most of the teams are
gonna be in the same spots right like
the playoffs are mostly gonna look the
same maybe the sixth or seventh spot
changes based off best of three because
of the volatility affecting that right
but it mainly ends up being the same in
practices the same so I think the
argument of international is just kind
of irrelevant I practiced has never
changed over the course of LCS despite
all of this whether you personally like
watching more because that's that's a
good perspective on coaching and I know
like Beltre has been like I hate this I
prefer beste but would you prefer
watching I honestly prefer watching best
of one I'm trying to keep up with as
many regions as possible right and
obviously best of three gives you like
more info every time
but it can be hard to catch every game
to like this is my job as well to like
watch as many of these games as possible
and it's hard to catch up obviously
there's more info you can get but it's
like a casual viewer when I try to watch
something casually it's nice to be able
to watch just one game and kind of have
a rough idea of how it goes I guess
competitive's sake I'd like to have best
of three but that's me being greedy like
I can watch scrims of teams that I've
played in the past too and use that just
as effectively right yeah I've always
personally preferred best of three but
like it is a bit of a nightmare when I
was like last foot doing glt and blame
game and it's like oh I have to rewatch
like a billion games a week just to try
and yeah great content it's like it's
much easier to content creator - yeah it
can get pretty tough obviously you have
a clear idea where the best teams
alright that's just what happens but
yeah it's just I think it has downsides
just for casual viewers okay thank you
so much Tyra really appreciate having
you on the show thanks to my favorite
coach who has called in on this show he
was going to part implied that he was
going to call in but then I wasn't he
seemed like I have to download discord
then it just became too much work for
him I guess so I thought he hated Skype
I see him tweeting about how bad Skype
is well if we did the show on slack
maybe we'd be able to get them on oh
yeah all right next caller coming in
just a second you go me grab them now
yes please the next caller here again if
you are tuning in for the first time
this episode you are watching hot line
League it's a call-in show hosted by
mark and I this this week's guest is
Ryan chopper he gets up to anything else
yes we have caught on the line Khan who
previously has been on the show and as a
twitch sub thanks first up for
your support where you come from again
con oh good old Idaho nice that RISM can
remember me as somehow they only call
that cousin of the show but just good
old Idaho no very good
yeah no I mean a lot of people bring up
Idaho we seem to have a lot of colors
from I've already cracked ume potato jam
yeah
so what do you want to talk about calm
oh when I appreciate chopper for being
so open with the community as somebody
who's ahead of an ALCS it's nice to see
but my question is is kind of
piggybacking off at the last guy in a
way and what type of plans is riah you
know you guys have to improve na LCS
viewership because you know I've been
kind of watching the numbers all split
you know and there hasn't really been
very much of a bump especially compared
to kind of the glory days for the NLCS
in like season 3 season 4 season 5 when
it was so what do you guys have planned
to maybe help bring it back because it
just feels like we're still stuck in a
lull I mean I was watching last week and
games four and five or under a hundred
thousand viewers on the Riot Games
Channel and that's for me as somebody
who's been watching from season two
that's a huge kind of disappointment
yeah so I think there's a couple things
one I I don't think the viewership is as
as dire as you're portraying I would
remind people who only watch on twitch
that we are also multiple other luge's
on twitch else on youtube sorry like
they cut out for a second there so you
know are we where I aspire for the lead
to be in viewership no certainly not I
was here in 2013 I helped work on some
of those analytic reports that pulled
those numbers I know how big our
potential audience can be and I am the
reason that I'm here is to build us back
to that state like there's nothing
fundamentally different about our league
or our fan base or our teams the
prevents us from getting back to that so
I like you want us to get back to that
that that sort of glory age as you kind
of put it and I think to do
we have a lot of things in plant some of
them are going to involve working much
more closely with the teams as franchise
partners I think we're gonna be able to
coordinate much more closely with them
around the kind of content that we do
and the sort of supplemental experiences
that were able to design that are going
to provide more rewarding and engaging
experiences for fans I think we also
have a lot that we can do on the riot
side to build out the digital and sort
of overall fan experience of being part
of the NA LCS you know I grew up as a
major sports fan I grew up a Duke
basketball fan and a general
Philadelphia sports fan and I can
remember as a kid being part of things
like the Junior Duke Blue Devils club
and what it meant to get the t-shirt and
feel you were part of the club and you
know the pride I took and being able to
represent my team and the fact that that
meant that I didn't miss a single game
and you know was able to carry that on
for years that behavior and so we're
looking to create long-term engagement
cycles with our fans and we want to make
sure that our fans are able to integrate
with their teams and integrate with
their favorite players and integrate
with those brands in a in a compelling
fashion and that's a lot of the stuff
that were working on right now you know
I think it was a massive effort to
launch the season given the number of
changes that I talked about above I mean
I don't want to underscore how
challenging implementing a franchise
system was for Riot as a company and
also this team on na LCS and also the
who had to undergo this entire process
and so I think now that we are into the
season this is really just the beginning
of what we aspire to do to rebuild the
NA LCS into truly one of the best eSport
leagues in the world so you know I don't
have a great answer for you now other
than to say that like let's book a hot
line League in like six months and if I
haven't answered your question better by
then like then we'll start talking about
more direct action steps like I'm
incredibly confident this team we have
one of the best staffs in the world and
like this is a team and and our proteins
and owners are ready to partner with us
to build this thing into something that
all of our fans can be truly proud of so
I'm super excited about that I know our
team is super jazzed about it
and I think over the coming weeks and
months and to be honest years you'll see
that effort reflected alright yeah I
just you know a few things
guess ideas maybe I asked you if you
guys are thinking about is like sure I
mean obviously if you wanted to inflate
numbers for like a weekend you could
have like a Tyler one not saying I agree
with that or saying it's a good idea but
like even like special guests that come
in or one thing I know a lot of people
are disappointed with is that there was
no kind of hype or like advertisement
built around the UH started the spring
split with the new franchise system
compared to like you know the overwatch
League you know anything like that
potentially that you might know of at
the moment or yeah I mean I think for
the start of the season I would hazard
it was probably the most challenging
start of season that we'll have going
forward because we're transitioning so
many of the teams into the league I mean
getting a lot of those guys up off the
ground and you know working with several
of those teams who didn't have
necessarily brands and logos and colors
and all the elements that we need to
kind of promote teams for the start of
the season so I think now that a lot of
those teams are in the league and are
going to be for years to come that's an
opportunity and I suggest waving to the
twitch chat there I think that's the
opportunity that we have to really
submit the start of season to the point
that you raise around like Tyler won and
doing other sort of like single expected
calls to try and drive traffic as much
as those might be fun the long-term
impact of those is relatively me because
we're not going to make you know a
massive amount of money for the lrp and
share that with owners and share that
with players based on a single week's
worth of your ship and we're not going
to assign a massive sponsor just because
one week we happen to pull in fantastic
viewership we're trying to make
decisions and we're trying to build
programs and the engagement cycles that
can last for years and can engage
someone who can come back week over so
as much as we might be able to utilize
sort of you know spectacle opportunities
like that that's actually I'm far less
interested in doing things like that and
far more interested in having the team
think about what is it that makes a fan
want to tune in for five hours on
Saturday and five
on Sunday what makes them want to watch
every game on this slate well makes them
want to watch eyes on and what makes
them want to watch this or that and what
makes them want to watch Hotline league
like makes them want to engage with the
wider community and the wider ecosystem
because it's me that's the sign of a
successful league it's not whether or
not we can pull in 300,000 on a single
Saturday it's you know for me it's
whether or not we're still here in ten
years and so that's that's kind of the
direction that I'm hoping to build the
lead towards well I'm happy to hear that
too and then just the final kind of
point is have you guys ever thought
about taking it away from just a Sunday
and Saturday type of structure because
one of my complaints as a viewer is I
feel like you know you made the change
the best of one so you can watch all the
games but it can feel overbearing to
have all the games on two days I'm like
other leaks that have games over five
days it is something we've considered we
actually started the NA LCS back in 13
with shows on Thursdays and Fridays and
we started them with varying times
between 3:00 and 5:00 p.m. PST when the
prom that we ran into is by starting
that late we had very very significant
problems with attracting both an East
Coast audience as well as a European
audience and one thing that we know
about our audience in Europe is that
they like to consume the North American
house yes just like our NA audience
likes consume the EU LCS so we didn't
want to take steps that we're going to
isolate either of those audiences and so
being able to utilize Saturdays and
Sundays to go a little bit later knowing
the kind of viewing habits of the
respective audiences that we were going
with but not necessarily having to go as
late as we would on a weekday while that
might work out for our West Coast
viewers and we know there's a ton of you
know incredibly passionate West Coast
figures out there we want to make sure
that we're taking into account the
entire ecosystem so if there's a way
that we can do something whether through
rebroadcast or kind of selective
broadcast timing over the week that's
certainly something that we'll explore
but I think for now we feel pretty good
about the the timing of our our games
being optimized for bringing in the
largest audience possible all right well
that's everything has like I said
really want to thank you chopper your
you're always open on reddit you're open
on Twitter you're open the Travis hey
man my pleasure
it was a great series of quiet to talk
about thanks come and that's a tough so
you just know the quality kind of
questions you get from Travis's tubs
yeah great great people all around thank
you to Oakes ilku subs by the way oh he
used to work at used to work as a riot I
think we'll go for about another 10 or
so minutes just because I feel like
we're starting to kind of it's a it's a
lot harder for mark and I to banter back
and forth on this episode because the
questions are like well LCS ever be on a
different weekend it's a different day
that we can work in our like I well we
can't really involve that so maybe a
little bit of a shorter show this guy is
also talking about festivals but he
likes them so maybe this is gonna
retread some common ground and if so
hopefully we can move on quickly but I
pulled him a little bit ago to represent
the other side of people who didn't like
who preferred best the trees the guren
where you come from Mississippi very
good and what do you want to talk about
so like Mark said I initially when the
split started I didn't like going to
best of ones I thought it was a bad idea
from like the competitive standpoint but
as this foot has gone on I've found that
I've been able to watch almost every
game and really like get into the LCS
which I haven't really been able to do
in pass splits and just like how sorry I
can't think of the words how like games
between the 9th and 10th place team are
way more exciting and be a ones and I
just kind of wanted to ask chopper if
like that was like the overall goal of
switching to best ones ever best of
threes I I'd say it was part of the goal
I think kind of like I talked about
wanted to enhance the the health of the
overall ecosystem
we're shipping a product and I think
when we were in a Bo Furi world to be
pretty Frank a lot of people would tune
out for a matchup of the 9th and 10th
place team because it was gonna take two
and a half hours at a minimum
now when you know that it's gonna be a
45-minute block within a five-hour block
of compelling content I think it's a lot
easier to watch that I think it also
turns into a much more engaging matchup
because you know both those teams are
far more incentivized to get that single
win and so you end up with with much
more engaging games I mean some of the
most fun games we've seen in the season
have been with teams closer to the
bottom of the standings to the top so I
think that was kind of one of the
benefits that we projected would come
with shifting them back to be a 1 I
wouldn't say it was explicitly the only
goal that we had to make sure that the
bottom teams were more watchable but it
was certainly a benefit and you kind of
mentioned this just now but do you think
the best of one's gets rid of this whole
like well we can just lose Game one and
then come back and win the series by
playing like serious comps like
teamfight comps yeah I mean you know if
you lose Game one you're out for the day
so there's Kevin Janssen I do think it
probably changes how teams think about
preparing and I think it probably does
encourage them to you know run what they
feel is their best lineup and their best
comp at all times and and so I think to
that degree you might feel like there
might be less inventiveness but I think
we're also seeing because teams know
that they're always going up against
everyone else's best shot sometimes some
teams have to get creative to take down
that other team's best shot so you know
I think teams are gonna adapt to make
the best out of any situation that they
can and I think you know it's it's gonna
result in really watch well league if
you have teams that really care about
competing and are proud of the product
that they put out on the field I'd also
say I think just generally like the
best-of-three like not trying in the
best of ones I don't like the first game
of the best of three was probably not
that common like I think maybe teams
were willing to be a little bit more
experimental but I doubt they ever got
to the point where is like well we don't
care it was just like yeah one three one
compiiment
a 1-3-1 team so I think that was
probably never too much of angstrom but
I do agree that like maybe for the first
like through the season before teams
like settle into their spots they don't
take as many risks and they can result
to a slightly more stale meta but like
once you get to week four or five we're
golden Guardians realize like OSHA where
zero eight that's when you start seeing
like camille flex jungle and they allow
e top and like the bottom teams start
taking the risks that they need to start
climbing and I think maybe it's a little
less experimental throughout the entire
season but you still see at least four
like meta it starts shaking up a little
bit later once the standing set a little
more thank you so much come on thank you
are you grabbing up all right just a
couple more callers here as we're
wrapping up yeah works where signature
noises he moves to the other channel and
just a little bit more we're ramping up
the show any second now where it's gonna
come back so I move into the ASMR voice
Rico suave is returning on the show we
have a New York yep and what do you want
to talk about on the show doubling a
future na LCS as in as a doubling tease
we have doubling oh I'm gonna go from 10
to 20 yeah okay so Champa what are you
gonna just snap your finger and and
double down on people I think we're not
necessarily like tend to think 10 to 12
or 10 to 14 depending on how things look
as a is a much more reasonable expansion
for point of view when we think about an
expansion and hopefully this gets the
kind of the heart of what you're you're
asking about here what we think about in
terms of expansion is trying to consider
a variety of different factors we want
to understand what is the competitive
depth of the player pool in a certain
region so we want to understand are
there gonna be enough players
filled a competitive product on the
field if we feel like there is
sufficient ownership interests that's
going to be able to guide those teams to
success
and if we think there's fan interest in
more content because the one unavoidable
component of bringing out more teams is
that it is significantly more content
that then becomes aired over the course
of a week and so you know we have to
weigh a lot of those into consideration
at various times you know a couple years
ago that led us to expand from 8 to 10
I certainly have ambitions of expanding
beyond the 10 teams that we have right
now I can't commit to you and that's
going to happen or even if that will
happen but I certainly would love to see
a team I'll leave that has more teams
increasingly diverse brands and really
compelling offerings to the fans so as
long as they kind of hit that quality
mark and we feel that ecosystem is ready
then that's kind of the indications that
would be considering for expansion
before you know yeah looking into
eSports now trying to get their nose in
there and then you also include other
sports like you know maybe major league
baseball football and the other question
also want to ask was maybe as as leaked
as a na LCS grows maybe splitting into
like two different divisions like I'm
really hoping that we can finally have
like a East Coast West Coast kind of
thing happen because you know we have
two US East Coast people gotta like you
know wait until the middle of the day to
like watch else yes but it would also be
great if you know we have tees from you
know like just show some love to the
East Coast I guess yeah maybe later on
Midwest as well yeah you know and I
think expanding to a larger number
certainly gives us the opportunity to
what to do some really cool things with
divisions within your league and
different sets of teams you know the LPL
underwent a divisional a couple years
ago and has had a lot of success there
so I think we certainly have an
appreciation for that as a potential
future format it's also a great way to
get around the total number of games
that you have to play by limiting sort
of interleague play within the division
so there's a lot that we're looking at
there but I think until we feel like the
ecosystem is ready to go we're not going
to expand preemptively because the last
thing we want to do is just put a bunch
of really bad product on the field so
until we're sure that those teams will
be ready to go and would pulley buttoned
up we're not going to expand beyond the
time what about and this is one of those
crazy ideas that fans have been talking
about on this show yep you know Europe
and na merged to make one super region
and it's like the you know North
American League and the European League
but we're under the same thing you kill
all the tree like the transfer rules and
baseball I guess yeah I mean I think the
challenge there is like what is the goal
that we're trying to accomplish you know
is are we trying to see more na versus u
competition but in a world where all of
the inner policy rules go away one of
those teams actually didn't mean in the
context of na versus e and coupling that
with the massive logistical difficulties
of trying to do offline matches that
involve teams traveling potentially from
Berlin to LA on a semi-regular basis you
know we experimented to a degree with
this with rivals to see what it looked
like to be able to kind of understand
having you know na teams versus EU teams
and having that be on a on a quicker
cadence and they would maybe match up in
with worlds and msi and its really
difficult on those teams to do that much
travel and still find time to practice
and take this matter seriously so i
would be pretty hesitant to to go too
far down that road just because a I'm
not sure there's too much to be gained
from it because I think our fans of
North America and our fans of Europe
have a significant number of
opportunities to see that a competition
happen and I also don't think that
there's a ton of logistical ways that we
could make that not be an utter
nightmare for the teams
there you go unless each of you in the
chat says built-in island in the
Atlantic just have a play that so
someone's willing to spraying for the
Atlantis then I reconsider all of the
Atlantis LCS to you I really appreciate
that yeah people are gonna do that they
should help make the hotline legal I've
happen in Miami no no that sounds like a
much better idea
I oh sure just build a city under water
and just play there greater priorities
yeah thanks so much Rico for your call
thanks mark just wish those wrap things
up we should be good in just a moment
though as we're taking our final caller
in yeah thanks to everyone who subbed
tonight really appreciate what our it's
nice to have your support on the show
mark I know we have another individual
in the waiting room but I think I think
we might just need to wrap a little bit
earlier a juror is on the show sure
where you calling from all right keep
the answers okay I'm from Atlanta
Georgia okay what do you want to talk
about it sure um so the term developing
talent gets thrown around a lot
especially now in the case of golden
Guardians and other such teams and I
wanted to talk about kind of what that
actually means because I think a lot of
people seem to think that you know oh
these teams are buttered bottom tier
teams because players like Matt and
deftly are like mechanically inferior to
the other players and that might be true
to some extent but I think the skill gap
is a lot less than people actually think
and I think really what it comes down to
is knowledge and the way you play the
game because I mean I can say for at
least on the soloqueue letter you know I
there becomes a point where like the
skill gap gets less and less and less as
you climb but the reason that those
people are at the top is because they
make better decisions throughout the
game and I think the same can be said
for professional play for the most part
yeah yeah I think I think when we talk
about teams like golden Guardians who
are you know might be struggling right
now and might be operating with players
that have relatively lesser LCS
experience part of it is about getting
them those additional reps and you know
giving them the opportunity to play on
stage and test out those decision-making
skills in a way that's all acute doesn't
that's so it's has so I think there's
ways to develop talent without
necessarily solely speaking to the
mechanics that you can work on in
soloqueue but I'm not sure if that
necessarily address the question that
you had well it was less of a question
of more I guess the discussion but I
think what what I meant more is that
like practicing mechanics isn't actually
hard it's time-consuming but you know
you can learn to land a skill shot no
matter who you are it just and you can
improve your reaction time that's that's
something you can actively do even while
you're not playing League of Legends but
I think that another big part that plays
into it is that these players that are
at the bottom rungs and I understand why
it happens from an analysis standpoint
because obviously you want to analyze
teams from where they are currently but
I think you know seeing a lot of people
shit on them actually probably hurts
their mental a lot and I think in order
to improve you you have to have a pretty
good mentality I mean there are some
people that are obviously motivated by
being bad at something I'm that way like
if I'm bad I get frustrated because I'm
bad and so I want to get better but
other people you know they they like
more positive reinforcement I guess and
I think it makes it difficult for some
of the bottom tier teams to actually
improve when they think they're shit
yeah but I would say I mean Guardians
like if that team was so bad why why are
they three and three in the last you
know couple weeks like they're clearly
improving and I agree that like
sometimes your mental just goes boom and
it doesn't recover for the rest of that
split like maybe that's what's gonna
happen to CLG but I think everyone knows
that those players that are on sale
at one point a lot of them hosted the
trophy or hoisted the trophy or like you
know they were good players so maybe
this roster isn't the right thing maybe
that they're missing something maybe
they're missing a fro whatever it is but
like a lot of these guys will probably
get another chance to the lead and like
developing talent doesn't just mean like
oh well they're picking up wins
therefore they're developing like you
can develop and still be losing I think
yeah but but I mean do you think that
it's just there's no way that these
players on CLG are ever going to mesh
that literally that they are just
incompatible and they could never learn
to work together no I'm not
yeah I think like they'll never learn to
work together but it's that some rosters
just have better like cohesion together
like discernible play style and so
that's clearly lacking on a team like
CLG and you can build all that up and
spend a substantial amount of time
trying to build something that's not
there or you can go out and try and find
it through roster moves which is
something that you know as a decision
they'll have to make probably this
offseason yeah well with the new system
in place the franchising like I feel
like everyone was talking about how oh
you know we're gonna actually give
players a chance and then immediately
after teams started losing everyone was
talking about how they should just
replace all their players I don't know
it that was just the way I saw it yeah I
mean it's what your goals are like
golden Guardians didn't build that Ross
when the LCS no I guess that's true yeah
hey thanks so much for calling imager
yeah thank you yeah Oh mark well I
thought we were done mark was going to
get the last person he's very insistent
very insistent on making this happen so
it looks like you guys get a bonus
collar in whoops who will be here
shortly
hello whoops we're calling from oh yeah
you're a little quiet right now if you
could just stick the microphone in your
mouth please all right excellent yeah
where and what would you like to talk
about is your closing out the show for
us so I know this is a controversial
topic but I'm talking about how I think
he used probably
shit on na during MSI in worlds this
year and how I think franchising hasn't
changed the overall quality of na as a
region so mark I told you I was like
okay last caller
you wouldn't got this guy and he's a
caller who just wants to talk about how
he is gonna shit on na break and get
this guy within I got him a while ago
whoops came about she's been in that I
know I know I know I'm just laughing
because I it's just a funny call to come
in alright whoops I don't know why
you're saying this because the NA LCS if
you look at how competitive it's been
it's more stack than ever even the
bottom team can take games off those
some of the top teams
I clearly I don't know you know you
haven't been watching I think well you
say that some bottom team tier teams can
take games off the top teams but I'd say
you is even more exciting than na is
this year yeah we've had underdogs like
Giants and vitality come up and start
beating the league even though no
vitality seems tough jumped off a cliff
and it just playing like shit but that's
besides the point
teams like h2k are rising out of the
ashes and are starting to take games off
of some really good teams and the way
that the top teams in you are playing
like fnatic and g2 I think that if they
have to play against echo fox and c9
toward the current top two teams in na
in my opinion and he doesn't stand a
chance okay twitch chat right now
spamming Li hang up a mo including Steve
well if Steve's team could start playing
a little better than maybe I wouldn't be
saying this chopper you're gonna say
something I mean look like we we have a
lot of folks here who product and I'm
super close with the guys who who run
that league as well there's just between
the two of them I don't happen to
coincide with your view on this one na
is
is primed for for a national play and I
think you know but but it's it's hard to
take away from the EU guys I mean great
watching guys like vitality and the mid
laner gzk kind of jumping up out of
nowhere and it's great to see guys like
that get in place because I know now who
the is the NA mid they're working a
steel for next year so you know it's
it's great to see kind of a farm farm to
a pool of talent get to see the crop up
and you know we'll see how this goes at
MSI and ripples what was that phrase at
the beginning there chopper it was like
I don't think we aligned on this
something what was it I don't think
we're particularly aligned on yeah
that's like that's like the right way of
[Laughter]
maybe maybe I'll eat my words but I know
there's a lot of really motivated and
hungry teams out there and I'm excited
to see them take the stage
internationally to see how they play to
is just like franchising is more of a
long term solution I think than just
like this split so maybe EU even if they
do crap on us I think it's fine to make
fun of na but it's probably not like
sila franchising was stupid after so I
agree yeah it's just it's just oh oh
look
and it took Sven and mithi and power v1
febiven he use ruined up we just
replaced them
is there something over there is that
what is it like some Swedish hot spring
water that they're given to them dad is
that why they stuck when they come to
North America oh Jesus all right yeah
thanks for having me thanks man
all right so we're wrapping up the show
mark is there anything you any shoutouts
plugs anything he wants to hear at the
end no it's like he's like looking
around yeah yeah
Saddam it was I got a free redeemed I
order there so much you know yeah I
should have a blame game this week it
might not be a full feature one second
that many topics I found interesting so
might be like a three and a half minute
one and we'll see how that goes because
like I don't really just want to Pat it
out with like content that I don't feel
particularly compelled to talk about so
we'll see but there should be something
coming out tomorrow or Thursday about it
yeah
chopper thank you so much for coming on
the show really appreciate it my
pleasure guys this was this was great
I'd be happy to come back if you would
have me oh yeah we definitely will
definitely well so thank you is there
anything you want to shout out I'll
shout out the ene Academy broadcast on
Friday and then the else Saturday and
Sunday
starting at a two o'clock on Saturdays
and noon on Sundays thirty minutes
earlier if you wanted to catch the
pregame and see all of that beautiful
mark Z content as he continues to crush
the various pets of our na LCS staff not
just in just in picking games where it
really really counts oh yeah we got a
couple weeks left in the season we've
got some exciting content some stuff
coming up and then obviously you know
tune in for the playoffs this year I
think it's gonna be our most competitive
run yet I'm incredibly excited showing
Miami's gonna be dope and we are you
know we're running full steam ahead
we're excited about what we've got
coming forward by the way just as a
follow up to the last caller who made
that joke about Steve Steve just posted
on twitch chat said all right just got
back from the burn clinic so he's okay
guys he's recovered from it I think
again thanks so much chopper for coming
on the show that was really fun one and
I really appreciate it for everyone else
oh yeah
Travis before you cut it I just want to
shout out the chainsmokers catalog from
2000 this is a Kelby thing this is a Cal
be favorite everything the chainsmokers
did produced from 2012 to 2016 I think
is what he says what what is the date
Kelby
and it seems panic go market is spamming
he has I think I think it's on oh
through 2016
okay yeah 2013 to see those
all right anyway thanks so much everyone
by the way this show is a podcast you
can find it on iTunes and on Google Play
and other places there's a YouTube video
so if you watch this and you want to
watch the YouTube it goes up there we
also clip out some of the coolest parts
and I've got videos going up there's
patreon thank you to omotte for
sponsoring that's I think everyone this
is episode 15 thanks for watching